Translated techlab 3.5 to english (#31)
appuio/techlab: labs/11_template.md

> # Lab 11: Application templates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Lab 11: Application Templates
```

> In this lab we show how templates can describe entire infrastructures and can be instantiated with a command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this lab we show how templates can describe an entire infrastructure and how they can be instantiated.
```

## Templates

As you've seen in the previous labs, you can easily create and deploy applications, databases, services, and their configuration by entering different commands.

This is error-prone and is not suitable for automating.

> OpenShift offers the concept of templates in which you can describe a list of resources that can be parameterized. So you are almost a recipe for a whole infrastructure (for example, 3 application containers, a database with Persistent Storage)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenShift offers the concept of templates in which you can describe a list of resources that can be parameterized. Think of them as a recipe for a whole infrastructure, e.g. 3 application containers and a database with persistent storage.
```

> **Note:** Clusteradmin can create global templates, which are available to all users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** A cluster administrator can create global templates which are available to all users and can also be instantiated via web console
```

> View all existing templates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
View all existing templates:
```

```bash
oc get template -n openshift
```

Using the Web Console, this can be done via "Add to Project". This functionality allows templates to be directly instantiated.

These templates can be stored in json format in the Git repository next to their source code, as well as via a URL called or even locally stored in the filesystem.

## Task: LAB11.1: Instance Template

The individual steps we have done manually in the previous labs can now be carried out using a template in a "slide".

```bash
oc new-project [USER]-template
```

> Create template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create template:
```

```bash
$ oc create -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/appuio/example-spring-boot-helloworld/master/example-spring-boot-template.json
[...]
```

> instantiat template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instantiate template:
```

```

With:

```bash
oc import-image example-spring-boot
```

the image will be imported and started.

With:

```bash
oc rollout latest mysql
```

the databasae will be deployed

**Hint:** You could also process templates directly by calling a template directly `$ oc new-app -f template.json -p Param = value`

To conclude this lab you can still see the template

```txt
https://github.com/appuio/example-spring-boot-helloworld/blob/master/example-spring-boot-template.json
```

**Note:** Existing resources can be exported as a template using the `oc export [ResourceType] --as-myapptemplate` Command.

For example:

```bash
oc export is,bc,dc,route,service --as-template=example-spring-boot -o json > example-spring-boot-template.json
```

It is important that the Imagestreams are defined at the top in the template file. Otherwise, the first build will not work.

---

> **End Lab 11**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**End of lab 11**
```
